---
layout: posts
title: "The Amateur Mind and Absolute Truth"
---
*Author: Bianca Yang*<br>
*Email: <a href="mailto:ipacifics@gmail.com?subject=Hello from the XDRT Blog">ipacifics@gmail.com</a>*<br>

Welcome to the August 8th, 2018 post. It's time to educate yourself on vaguely
interesting drivel I'll scooped up from the bottom of the Internet.

The first thing I'd like you do is to try to draw a bike from memory. When
you're done, scan it and send out two copies: one to me, one to the guy who
runs [this website](http://www.gianlucagimini.it/prototypes/velocipedia.html).

The best thing Gianluca says is: "There is an incredible diversity of new
typologies emerging from these crowd-sourced and technically error-driven
drawings. A single designer could not invent so many new bike designs in 100
lifetimes." The reason a designer could not come up with this many designs
is because the designer has models of "correct" bikes in his head. The
designer has been trained to know what drawings are structurally correct, what
structures give certain ride feelings, what designs are in vogue, and overall,
how a bike should be.

Call these mental models limiting, but you have to acknowledge that these
models achieve what they were designed to achieve: enable to designer to
efficiently design legitimate designs. A creative still has the burden of
creation upon him, so it is useful to learn and develop models that facilitate
creation. That's why the amateur can sometimes shine in exploring the unknown.
The amateur's mind is unburdened by any standards around bike design. They
simply are given the bare scaffolding of "bike" to realize their thoughts
around.

The Amateur Mind, for all the "freedom" I've conflated with it, is really
not that useful, though. The constraints a designer has and the efficiency
tricks he has picked up over years of practicing his craft are what makes
him useful. Through repeated practice, you start to see patterns in the way
things are done and can really understand how to break those patterns to create
new modalities. That is a set of knowledge an amateur doesn't have. The
amateur is crippled because he doesn't know how to sift through the
information. He treats all data points as equivalently important. But they're
not, and the designer knows that. Searching through an amateur's mind is like
searching through the junkyard. The likelihood of finding something good is
low. Even when you do find something good, refurbishing costs may make the
trip less worth it than starting from scratch.


The second thing I'd like you to do is to answer the following question
for yourself: Does Absolute Truth exist?

Once you've answered that for yourself, take some time to read
[this blog post](https://samzdat.com/2018/05/31/science-cannot-count-to-red-thats-probably-fine/).

This is one of my favorite blog posts. I think back on it frequently,
especially because I'm trying to resolve what are superficially conflicting
philosophies about work.

The startup view on work is to move fast, breed the oxymoronic controlled
chaos, and break things. The _War of Art_ and Derek Sivers method is to focus
and be slow, methodical about everything you do. Sit down, work in long blocks
without distractions, turn off your phone, turn off the internet, and crank
out your work. Only through repeated refining against the grindstone can you
achieve your best.

The startup view on work is to have open offices and encourage constant stream
of consciousness communication. Like the internet, the communication pipes
are clogged with memes and other trash, but enough gold gets through that
quality work gets done. The other view is to have closed offices and give
people space for private, carefully brewed thinking.
